Can we use the catch error operator?
>> I love that question.
The question was can we use
the catch error operator?
We can, right in this situation right but
we have to kind of changed
the way cuz we implemented this
because even if it's a 400 or
500 fetch does not throw an error, right?
It will simply say
the response is not okay.
But that doesn't mean we can't
throw an error [LAUGH] Right?
We're well within our rights to
throw an error in this case.
So we can say, throw new error
Something went wrong right
now we've thrown an error and
we've created a bad thing for
ourselves if one throws an error it's
kinda like throwing like an apple
pie in the air directly above you.
You can throw an apple pie,
you should be prepared to catch it, right?
That's not my best analogy,
but we're gonna go with it.
So the question was,
can we use catch error?
We can we just need to make sure that
like we throw errors in the cases that we
want to do.
Do with so
we have an operator called catchError and
instead of letting
the observable error out what
it does is it allows you to catch it,
right?
And so we could say like return to
basically that logic we had before.
I think that's an error
object in this case,
we'll find out I'll get
yelled at if it's not.
Well, so just cancel there too.
All right, let's see,
that should do the trick.
If not, we'll find out together, and
I'll look confused for a second.
So we throw there.
We haven't caught it.
Mostly because we'll play a fun game.
Why didn't I catch the error.
You're outside.
Yep.
So it was on the outer observable.
It's really this inner
one that had the error.
So that is a common case
which is the inner one.
Blew up nothing caught
it it cascaded outwards.
So you have to catch just like in
JavaScript you have to catch the error
while you're through the erro right?
You can catch it I guess up
the stack in JavaScript but
cause we are constantly erro in it.
It's like it failed, cool.
So yeah, we're seeing on the screen
because we chose to cancel error.
So you can see something went wrong.
We're also seeing it there not because
anything blew up because we said we
wanted to know.
Right so we can see the network failure
but we can see nothing blows up in my code
it's simply we got the 500 back from
the API which the API did 500 but
we recovered we just put a notice.
And we gave it a shot.
All right, so here's the tricky part now,
we can have an API, it can work, we can
show an error message if there's an error,
awesome, we can clear out the error too.
I can say basically actually what I
would probably do is if we try again,
what I would probably say is let's.
Try that out that should clear out
there in between fetches that work,
then we'll have one that
should blow up every so often.
And you can see when it works again,
we clear out the error..
What if we wanted to retry?
How would you do this if you
didn't have an observable.
You want to say I want to try four
times before giving up right?
Cuz we all we all know those API's but
when that works 60% of the time
works every time right?
What happens we want to try
a certain number of times but
not perpetually maybe you
do want to do perpetual.
But let's say we want to retry it four
times what would you do with just regular
JavaScript?
>> Y-loop, you use a y-loop.
>> Y-loop and yeah you basically
have to store in a variable right?
And you iterate over it and all that kind
of thing you could do that like everything
in our JS is the thing that you
could do because it's JavaScript.
You can also write your own virtualDom2,
you can do whatever you want.
But when you don't hit your sprinkles,
you don't come talk to me about it.
One of the options that we have
is this ability to retry, right?
And we can say, okay,
I want to retry four times.
All right I have that one in here too.
So now it will go ahead and will if it
fails for some reason it's going to try it
again if you try it again and try it again
now this one fails one every two times.
So like, ideally, we should see
a success rate at this point and
kind of see in the network like
did it fail this one didn't.
So you see it failed,
and then try it again.
Succesful failed to try it again, right?
It probably won't fail four
times because this is a fake API
that succeeds roughly half the time and
science.
But for the most part like now we can
basically implement retry logic incredibly
easily, right?
We have a pretty like reusable
piece of API fetching code,
which will fetch it throw an error.
If we get a four or 500,
which a promise API doesn't do by default.
It'll catch the error and we can choose
what we want to do with it gracefully.
If it does if it gets
through all four times,
it will eventually hit this catch
error and we can do something with it.
But otherwise,
we can choose to retry it Mark.
>> For me, catch error worked fine
at the same level as exhausted.
>> Yeah, you know what it was I think like
because I was literally console area.
I was like, that's an error.
I wasn't expecting right,
it should bubble up, right?
I think that's fair.
Right.
This one let's try it out.
Cuz I was constant error I
saw like a sea of red and
I'm a little hurt after
the counter incident.
[LAUGH] Yeah, this one is retry now
let's make it fail all the time.
So that it like this will eventually
make it through its four retries.
All right, you can see it tries, it fails.
I guess there's the initial time plus for
retries, right?
And logs we did catch the error.
I could have it outside the pipe.
I was just when I let
the console error happen here.
If I turn this to a console
one it'd be a little
clearer to just to make
it not look the same.
You can change things if you don't
if you miss it slash key while
you're typing doesn't do anything right so
tries and
then we hit the catch errors
situation from before.